---
layout: post
title: sicp-3-4
date: 2015-03-01 16:03:22
isOriginal: true
category: SICP
tags:
 - Lisp
keywords: 
description: 
---

#### 3.39

1. 101: P1 , P2
2. 121: P2, P1
3. 100: P1 computes `(* x x)`, then P2 completes and sets x to 101, then P1 executes the assignment.

#### 3.41

As `withdraw` and `diposit` are both single modification operations,
it is not necessary to protect the `balance` value, as it would always be valid.

#### 3.42

It seems both of them would work.

#### 3.43

The sum would be kept just because each account is consistent individually.

#### 3.44

Ben is correct.
Exchange requires consitent states for both accounts, while transfer
would be fine as long as the sum of two accounts is correct.

#### 3.45

`serialized-exchange` has locked both accounts, which makes it impossible to
run `deposit` or `withdraw`.

#### 3.46

If atomic is not guaranteed, then multiple process can gain the same mutex at the same time which
would result in wrong result.

#### 3.47

{%highlight scheme%}
(define (make-semaphore n)
  (let ((the-mutex (make-mutex))
        (count 0))
    (define (the-semaphore m)
      (cond ((eq? m 'acquire)
             (the-mutex 'acquire)
             (if (= count n) ; full, have to wait
               (begin
                 (the-mutex 'release)
                 (the-semaphore 'acquire))
               (begin
                 (set! count (+ count 1))
                 (the-mutex 'release))))
            ((eq? m 'release)
             (the-mux 'require)
             (set! count (- count 1))
             (the-mux 'release))))
    the-semaphore))
{%endhighlight%}

#### 3.48

{%highlight scheme%}
(define (make-account-and-serializer balance id)
  (define (withdraw amount)
    (if (>= balance amount)
        (begin (set! balance (- balance amount))
               balance)
        "Insufficient funds"))
  (define (deposit amount)
    (set! balance (+ balance amount))
    balance)
  (let ((balance-serializer (make-serializer)))
    (define (dispatch m)
      (cond ((eq? m 'withdraw) withdraw)
            ((eq? m 'deposit) deposit)
            ((eq? m 'balance) balance)
            ((eq? m 'id) id)
            ((eq? m 'serializer) balance-serializer)
            (else (error "Unknown request -- MAKE-ACCOUNT"
                         m))))
    dispatch))

(define (serialized-exchange account1 account2)
  (let ((serializer1 (account1 'serializer))
        (serializer2 (account2 'serializer))
        (id1 ((account1 'id1)))
        (id2 ((account1 'id2))))
    (if (< id1 id2))
    ((serializer2 (serializer1 exchange))
     account1
     account2)
    ((serializer1 (serializer2 exchange))
     account1
     account2)))
{%endhighlight%}
